# Thesis2021
Supasin Wuthikulphakdi cloud repository for 2021 thesis (M.Sc. computer science)

## ABSTRACT
In this thesis, an extensive survey on spatio-temporal data mining networks was done and a comparison of those network models using Fire event was made. Nowadays, data mining is a powerful analytic tool. With the rise of Geo-Informaion system (GIS), STDM is essential to forecast traffic and disasters. Deep Learning (DL) models are powerful data mining rigs; for a dataset, a CNN-based model learn the spatial feature representations, as the temporal one belongs to the sequential-based architectures. Working together, the ST-data is analysed and predicted. Covering the scope, our thesis is focused on paper survey of deep learning algorithms and models in ST-data mining & forecasting. We asked ourselves 2 questions: 1. There are several STDM-DL models, but how well can they learn, and perform forecasting? And 2. If we have a custom dataset, with its data structure visualised, which model to be learned from it? We answered these in 2 experiments, the first one was that we run the state-of-the art STDM-DL models and compare their metrics. Majorly, the selected models, trained by either METR-LA or PEMS-BAY dataset, predicted the traffic in both spatial and temporal domains. In the second one, we had a fire-call record dataset of the New Taipei City (NTPC-Fire 2015-17), and implemented some simple, yet familiar models such as Autoencoders and GANs to reconstruct (predict) a rasterised heatmap and LSTM-RNNs, FBProphet and ARIMA in the temporal models to compare performance in time series forecasting of daily, and weekly, incident frequency. In our first experiment, we found out that some state-of-the-art models, like ST-METANET, STGCN, and Spacetimeformer, had a similar metrics, with all of them second only to the multi-LSTM. And found out that the “Deepforecast Multi-LSTM” is the best traffic prediction model to date, with 1.57539877 RMSE, and 1.15900731 MAE. In our second experiment, surprisingly, for our small dataset, the FBProphet model outperformed our best LSTM, with 6.97231 RMSE, and 5.045342 MAE. And our best spatial model to reconstruct (predict) a raster heatmap was the 9-Batch Variational Autoencoder (VAE), with 0.026348 RMSE, and 0.00924397 MAE. Given to these findings, we have known how analyse the data via visualization, and implement correct models and architectures for each domain in STDM task. Finally, we will continue to discover the method to solve environmental issues, and provide recommendations for future subtests, to point out the future research directions for this fast-growing research field.
